I'm in Shanghai Shenzhen and here in
Hong Kong. You're watching the China
Show. I'm Yvonne [music] Man with David
Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Let's
get to your top stories today. Oil
prices are falling as stocks are on the
up. Hopes here of a for [music] a Middle
East conversations here that would
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Now reports
say Washington has given Iran a 15-point
[music] peace plan and maybe seeking a
1-month ceasefire. China also stepping
up diplomatic efforts with Foreign
Minister Wang Yi urging his Iranian
counterpart to begin negotiations with
the US [music]
as soon as possible. And also ahead in
shows Philippine President Bongbong
Marcos [music] Jr. or Bongbong Marcos
tells us exclusively that the war could
spur talks with Beijing on oil and gas
cooperation [music] in these disputed
waters as he declares a national
emergency.
And I'm Stephen Engle at the Boao Forum
for [music] Asia in Hainan Island,
China's leading platform for dialogue
among government, business, and academic
leaders. Coming up this hour, we will
speak with Fortescue Metals [music]
Executive Chairman Andrew Forrest as he
labels fossil fuels a weapon of war, of
course, amid those Middle East
conflicts.
>> [music]
>> Are we on a path to peace? That
certainly is the question here today.
[music] Multiple reports that we've been
getting in the last couple of hours here
about, you know, possible, you know,
reports of ceasefire that, you know,
there is maybe negotiations that are
going underway later on this week as
well. But on the flip side, you're also
talking about, you know, up to 2,000,
3,000 troops that could be sent to the
Middle East region. Uh so, you know, is
this just negotiating tactics right now
or are we actually talking about boots
on the ground in this Iran situation?
So, there's a lot to parse through, but
at least for now, I think markets are
saying at least we're seeing some signs
of resolution here.
>> It's it's a lot clearer now
[clears throat] than 24 hours ago. I
mean, certainly in as far as the
direction of travel is concerned. Uh but
we've been saying this since day one,
you know, the president will decide when
he decides, right? So, until that point
in time, of course,
uh it's a lot of it remains unclear.
Although when you look at the markets
reacting to this, it does seem that we
are past the hump. Just looking at price
action, right? So, a case in point is
when you look at equity markets and
let's get to markets right now. Asia's
up by 2%. So, it's worth pointing out
that this rally today on price is the
biggest jump in stocks since the war
began.
Uh three, three and a half weeks back,
right? So, when you look at a 2% move in
in in in in Asian equities, it does
underscore more than this typical relief
rally we've seen periodically throughout
the last 3 weeks or so. Oil is below 100
bucks on Brent. The dollar is also
softer and yields are also pushing uh to
the downside. So, very synchronized
risk-on move we're seeing right now and
I have to underscore right now. Uh as
far as the dollar story goes, just to
unpack this even further,
uh you're looking at dollar China 690.
The peso is below
uh that 60 threshold. More on our
interview with the Philippine president
later on, of course, in shows. And you
are getting a rally across
Asian effects. Taiwan dollar, Korean won
also uh on your screens. Right, uh
Nikkei, uh Taiwan is coming in line.
Kospi within a Kospi, it's SK Hynix on a
separate story. Uh bottom of your
screens up 5%. The S&P futures are also
up by about, let's call it 1%. I'll be
generous today. Um in as far as that
contract is concerned. Uh we are going
into the earnings, the thick of
earnings, if not already, when it comes
to the Chinese markets. Xiaomi and big
names, Pop Mart is coming out with
earnings today. And we are looking to
see a rebound likely to extend uh here
in greater China today. Half of 1% to
the upside. Oil in Shanghai is also uh
playing along the same direction as we
are seeing with global prices currently.
Yeah, so let's get to the top story
here. President Trump says the US is in
talks with Iran signaling that Tehran
has offered an unspecified present
related to energy flows as a show of
good faith. Now, media reports in the US
and Israel say a diplomatic push for
peace is gathering pace suggesting the
Trump administration may be seeking a
1-month ceasefire.
They have no
navy left.
They have no air force left. They have
no anti-aircraft equipment left. No
radar left. No leaders left.
The leaders are all gone. Nobody knows
who to talk to.
But we're actually talking to the right
people and they want to make a deal so
badly. You have no idea how badly they
want to make a deal.
But all this talk of diplomacy comes
with Iran maintaining its grip on the
Strait of Hormuz. Well, Israel said its
military campaign will continue at full
intensity. Let's bring in our Bloomberg
Politics Editor Laura Davison. Uh
there's a lot of moving parts here right
now, but are we getting a sense that,
you know, diplomacy is actually underway
now?
That is not at all clear. I would love
to come in here one of these days and be
able to say that the direction of travel
is is clear. There was a lot of movement
over the past 18, 24 hours, but perhaps
even less clarity about whether we are
poised for a military ramp-up. We have
uh airborne troops now headed to the
region in addition to the uh Marines
that have been uh already on their way
um as well as Israel really amping up
its attacks today in Tehran. Meanwhile,
well, the US president is now talking
about um you know, a peace plan, this
15-point uh plan that the reports have
said that the US has sent over to um
Israel as well as perhaps uh you know,
talks of a 1-month ceasefire. Not at all
clear one that Israel is on board with
that or Iran is on board with this or if
this is the US and really Trump sort of
unilaterally uh sort of speaking uh
without concert of all these other, you
know, parties who have say in what what
goes on here. Uh if the the big
development that I've noticed today is
the Chinese have become involved. Wang
Yi has
in if I'm not mistaken, been on a call
with the Iranians. What do we know about
the Chinese world now?
>> you know, the the China has you know,
wanted to keep its distance here, but
you know, has both been in touch with
the Iranians as well as um you know,
putting pressure on the US to um to
engage in in in some of these these
talks as well. Um so, we we kind of see
it kind of you know, some of the folks
who have been uh hesitant to to really
get too much in the fray. We're also
seeing this with Gulf allies who are
now, you know, considering perhaps
deploying more
uh military force in this conflict. So,
you you kind of a couple things are
happening. One, uh you know, this seems
uncertain. We're hitting that 1-month
mark and there's a lot of people asking,
you know, what happens here? What kind
of pressure can we put on from the
margins to to to resolve this? Um as
well as the economic crisis is becoming
much more real um as as you know, if if
this becomes a protracted conflict, uh
you know, and the Strait of Hormuz is
closed. Iran does not want to relent
there. So, there's just a lot of
uncertainty. What is the status of the
Strait of Hormuz, right? You're you're
hearing from Iran saying, you know,
non-hostile ships can pass through.
There's talk about transit fees that are
being possibly also charged for for
vessels that are willing to pay up to 2
million according to our sources here
right now. Are we seeing signs of that?
Maybe little signs of reopening, maybe.
>> Little, but it it right now it's it's
very limited. You know, we saw that
Indian tanker move through over the
weekend. There was a Thai tanker who
moved through in about the past uh 24
hours or so. Uh but this is you know,
one way to sort of test the markets on
on how do they react? How much is the
market willing to bear? You know, Iran
is in is in a lot of need for cash right
now. So, this is a is a potential cash
source for them. Uh you know, this of
course is is very different from what
Trump was talking about yesterday as if
the US and Iran would would co-run um
uh
the the Strait of Hormuz. Okay. Uh
Laura, Thank you so much, Laura Davison
there, our politics editor. The the
Iranians' version of a of a tariff, if
you think about it, being able to pass
through there. We just showed you the
graphic which effectively shows you that
so far that
the volumes and the the vessels that you
can count is actually collapsed to still
near zero at this point in time. Right,
equity markets though are moving. Um
this is, of course, an anticipatory
asset class and largely maybe they see a
uh an off-ramp here. Chinese stocks are
also set to join looking at futures this
rebound. Massive rebound in price we're
seeing across markets today. Uh Todd
Yalansky is with us from Seattle, CIO,
Global Head of Multi-Asset and Quant at
Principal Asset Management. Uh Todd,
very good morning from the Asia-Pacific.
Thank you and we appreciate the time,
sir. Thank you
for joining us. Um is it premature or is
this do do markets finally see the end
of the tunnel here?
I think today's price action certainly
it looks like a relief rally from from
my perspective. Uh you can entered into
the conflict with risk premium already
priced at extremely high levels. And
then when you took oil up over 120, that
certainly escalated fears that investors
had that the higher oil prices would be
a tax on growth and really derail some
of the cyclical quickening which has
been behind some of the good news in the
markets this year. Uh I do think today's
price action does in fact reflect
investors growing in confidence that
there is an end in sight to high energy
prices and perhaps geopolitical tensions
can take a backseat to stock
fundamentals.
Okay.
If we move away from the headline risks,
then, Todd, it there's still that
lingering concern that, you know, 3
weeks of conflict has already led to
some economic scarring, right? These
fears of stagflation.
Is it still worth kind of
positioning around that sort of scenario
now or or can we start to fade some of
these concerns?
Well, concerns were the order of the
day, no doubt, but I think wise
investors can look through that and
point to one, a strong and quickening
pace of global economic activity. The US
is slated to grow at about 2.5%.
And meanwhile, worldwide, you're seeing
about 7% revenue growth with about 14%
earnings growth in 2026. Despite all the
drama in the headlines, you're actually
seeing a strong underlying economy. And
even without two additional Fed cuts,
yes, I think it's enough reason for
investors to go risk-on, overweight
equities, overweight credit modestly. I
remain optimistic that yes, you can
achieve a positive level of return in
26, and even despite an elevated level
of geopolitical noise.
And and and Todd, just more on the the
fundamental story, do you think
that that that changes at all, even by a
few degrees coming out of this and as
far as growth, inflation, and not just
in the US, right? We're talking global
EMs, energy importers, uh what have you.
Uh if I'm optimistic that we're seeing
the beginnings of a de-escalation,
uh you might just see a little bit of a
haircut on sort of worldwide growth. Uh
given the short amount of time that you
saw the elevated prices and the release
of strategic reserves to offset a lot of
that, you will will no doubt in fact see
some supply chain crunches even in the
best scenario. Uh but worldwide, there's
reason to think that with de-escalation
and a relatively short conflict, you can
in fact look at risk assets to perform.
We're in fact overweight in the US,
where we like large and small caps, but
I'd also point to emerging markets,
where in China uh as well as in Korea,
we see some opportunities. Uh I'd also
highlight in fact Latin America, where
Brazil is showing some sign interesting
signs as well.
Yeah, interesting that you mentioned
Korea. I mean, obviously there's been
concerns about supply risk given the the
energy crisis and the like. Um you you
you're still look looking pretty uh
bullish when it comes to Korea, but
Taiwan you've you've hit the neutral
sort of position. Can you can you square
that a little bit for us?
Yeah, on Taiwan, no doubt, you think you
have some of the higher valuations
you'll find across Asia, and that of
course syncs up with what you find with
the hyperscalers of course in the US.
But at those level of valuations, we're
a bit less interested than we are in
Korea. We're in fact you've had
tremendous price volatility, but all
behind some very interesting
fundamentals. You've seen investors
perhaps move for the exit, take some
profits after the rally to begin the
year and the subsequent decline on
energy concerns. We actually think Korea
may be undervalued and that good news
may be yet to come as you see an
abatement on energy prices and continued
demand for chips, electronics, and some
of the other global trade elements well
within the Korean economy.
Todd, talk a little bit more about your
preference in terms of fixed income
exposure, duration, and everything in
between, sir.
Now, on a global balanced basis, there's
a lot to like in the fixed income
markets. Uh in particular, we like
credit on the short end of the curve.
That could be investment grade
corporates, preferred securities, US
dollar high yield. I'd also note EM
debt, particularly on the hard currency
side. That basket of in fact credit, we
think is well positioned despite the
tight level of spreads to continue to
give positive carry, especially in the
short and in the middle end of the
curve. Now, it's always a good idea to
own long 30-year Treasuries just in case
you see some negative news in an
environment like this. So, I still think
long Treasuries make sense as a bit of a
hedge against a bad news surprise event.
But even without the tailwind of Fed
easing, we do think that bonds could be
poised to deliver a a pretty strong
year, especially on the back of good
credit fundamentals, despite in fact
some of the noise you've seen on the
private side. Public credit, we think
actually is uh poised to perform well in
26.
Yeah, you mentioned the noise in the
private side of private credit. Uh Todd,
I got to get your take on this, right?
Um
Are you looking to pick up some of these
loans that some of these private credit
funds are having trouble to sell at the
moment because of these kind of
increased redemption requests, or do you
think that there there's more or
something that's brewing here, and we
might see more defaults along the line
down the line here?
I think there's certainly increased
pressure, no doubt, on the group. And
certainly, I think the democratization
of private sounds like a great idea, but
sophisticated investors will what were
well aware of the illiquidity. And now
that asset class, private credit, is
owned by many more investors with less
familiarity with the illiquidity that's
part of the asset class. You know, our
research indicates in fact there isn't a
contagion, and despite some of the smoke
that we've seen on a few idiosyncratic
issues, the market's behaving well. And
in fact, while you're seeing some
pullback on some of the pricing in in
vintages that were related around sort
of the COVID era, I think it's a bit
early to step in and say, you know, I'd
be ready to be a buyer of some of those.
Uh but I don't expect a forced selling.
I don't expect a kind of pressure in the
system, either a liquidity event or a
credit event, enough to really shock
that would provide those kind of entry
prices that I'm certainly looking for.
Uh my sense is that private credit can
continue through this sort of the
framework of pressure and prove itself
yet to be a durable asset class.
Mhm.
Todd, it's great to have you. Todd
Jablonski there, CIO and global head of
multi-asset and quant at Principal Asset
Management. Uh still ahead, a big
interview of course with [music] the
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos
Jr. declaring a national energy
emergency for a year as the war in Iran
disrupts global oil supply. Our
exclusive interview is next. And we're
counting [music] down to open a trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong.
Futures are pointing to a possible rally
here in China [music]
and Hong Kong set to join in on this
relief rally. This is the China Show.
>> [music]
>> Right,
um Chinese markets are set to join this
rally we're seeing across the region. Uh
also opening in about 13 minutes, 12
minutes from now is markets in Manila.
Of course, the big news there of course
is the president and everything he told
us during our interview with him of
course yesterday. Uh the Philippines,
one of this is of course he's declared a
national energy emergency that will be
in force for a year as the war uh has
disrupted global oil supply. Now, prior
to that declaration, President Bongbong
Marcos also told us exclusively that the
ongoing conflict could spur a
breakthrough in energy talks with China.
I think it's going certainly going to
happen.
I don't think
uh that's something that we can that is
like an option.
That's uh it's happening now. Uh there
there there's going to be a very very
serious restructuring.
Uh
I remember I was watching
uh Prime Minister Wong uh
from Singapore, and he was saying there
will there will be a we will have to
withdraw redraw
all of our
even our legal uh legal relationships in
terms of the the international law, in
terms of all of these things. They they
will have a lasting effect.
And there is there will have to be a new
normal. Is there reason to think that
maybe it is a good idea to to have a
partnership in developing the gas
resources in the disputed areas in the
South China Sea? We've always tried
to uh differentiate the uh territorial
disputes
from uh our trade arrangements. And many
many investments still of the big
programs here of the government are
coming from China.
And they have not used this as somehow
they haven't leveraged this in some in
in any way. In quite the contrary,
they've been they're very very helpful
uh in terms of for example, fertilizer,
uh which is a we we import a great deal
of
of fertilizer from China. So, would you
consider developing gas resources with
China in the disputed regions areas in
the South China Sea? Is that something
you might consider?
>> we've been talking about for a great
deal.
Uh but the territorial disputes get in
the way of that. That maybe this will be
provide impetus for both sides to to
come to an agreement.
>> The Iran war, do you support the US
Israel war against Iran? It certainly
certainly was unexpected.
And we never want war.
Uh the our our our foreign policy is
is very very simple. It's peace and the
national interest. It's that's it. And
war is never in the national interest as
far as the Philippines is concerned.
And so, we just are hoping that this
ends soon.
And that
the whatever recalibration will will be
done as quickly as possible so we can
get back to work. Uh and that's that's
really the that's really where the
Philippines is. We
we are watching, waiting, hoping, and
praying
that this ends soon. The war has sent
the Philippine peso reeling 60
to the dollar.
It's testing new lows after new lows. Do
you think the BSP needs to tighten
policy to hike rates to support the
currency? As a matter of policy, we
defend the we defend the peso to a
certain extent.
But uh we just I think
uh with the dollar moving the way it is,
and it's it it's moving. Whereas before
the dollar was seen as a safe harbor uh
currency,
uh when you look deeper into it, the
dollar's movement uh increase in in
value has been really because they're
the largest uh oil um
producer.
And that's that's why that is and
considering that then we have to
I think it would be even
to be futile
to try to spend all of this
all of our foreign reserves on defending
on defending the peso. The impact of all
of this
of the war of the war in the Middle East
is really to the middle-income
and the lower middle-income countries.
And we are middle-income country. And so
that's where that's why
we have to look at that. The other side
of that for the Philippines
is the remittances.
The remittances are paid in dollars and
so there will be an increase but that
doesn't make up for for for the for the
for the drop in the
the dollar to peso. One of the key
challenges is the economy.
The Philippines used to be one of the
fastest growing in the region. Now a
laggard. Fourth quarter GDP was a mere
3% which was the slowest pace in 14
years outside the pandemic. Can you get
GDP back above 6%?
>> Yes, we believe we can. I mean we we
were forecasting for the year of 26.
We were going we were going to manage 6
7% 6 between 6 to 7% and with that that
that figure
was was something that we came up with
internally. But as well the other
financing institutions and the banks
seem to have had the same same opinion
because the improvement in our
our grade on S&P
and
is is was it was going to improve.
However,
with what the war in the Middle East
those have to be redrawn. Everything has
to be redrawn.
All right, we are 7 minutes away from
that open in China and yeah you're
seeing the [music] premarket in Hong
Kong up some 9/10 of 1%. We got the open
coming up next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right, couple of minutes to the opening
bell here and the story across the
equity markets is a rally across Asia.
Greater China set [music] to join that
rally
although relatively underperforming
given its relative [music]
outperformance given of course when we
do say bad days. Earnings of course very
much in focus today. Yeah, Xiaomi is
going to be the big one to watch here
after we saw the slowest growth in years
since 2023. [music]
Given the fact that they've talked about
the slumping smartphone demand and
really despite the EV business actually
doing okay. [music]
It is really what we're talking about
here when it comes to chip shortages in
the light that's really weighing on
Xiaomi. They're were down some 2%. The
rest doing a little [music] bit better.
The open is next.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back.
Couple of seconds to the opening bell.
What we're seeing across the markets
[music] is a risk rally
to a lesser extent in Hong Kong as you
can see. So we're up about [music] let's
call it 1% in Hong Kong. We're up 2 3%
across major benchmarks. If Morgan
[music] Stanley is correct, the price
action today does underscore that note
they just put out that Chinese stocks
will remain a winner if Hormuz shuts
longer. If it does reopen [music] then
we could see another performance like
we're seeing today I guess. Yeah, they
mentioned assumptions of at least a
month that we might see a closure there.
So right now [music] they're saying
China could actually outperform even
North Asia given their of course
relative energy supply chain security
and the like. But today as you say
relatively speaking they're not doing as
well as the rest of the region just
given the fact that the the
de-escalation sort of headlines that
we've seen in the last 24 hours or so
have been quite telling, right? Whether
it's that 15 point plan according to New
York Times that the US has sent to Iran
to end this war to even talking about
talks that could happen later on this
week. But then again there is
also news of potential boots on the
ground in the Middle East. So certainly
you know it's it's it's interesting to
kind of parse through all these
headlines and what this means but at
least markets are taking it as
possibly a path to peace right now. CSI
300 there you go is up some 7/10 of 1%.
Stocks are edging higher here as if they
mentioned one of the biggest kind of
bounces we've seen in stocks since this
war began and crude you can see
continuing to see a relief lower there.
We're down some 7%. geopolitical price
premium is being faded once again
following the price of Brent following
the price of WTI here today. You take a
look at what it comes to these large
caps we're largely seeing a bid here.
CATL is the exception. They were kind of
the key beneficiaries of this energy
crisis given you know the lithium impact
and the like. That seems to be fading a
little bit here today. We're down close
to 2%. Contemporary Amperex Technology
up close to 1% here. The chips certainly
will be quite interesting as well today
given the fact that you know when you
take a look at AI and the like that
certainly is going to be the key thing
to watch whether you know the AI winners
become the winners once again because
they were during this conflict the ones
that were selling off the most. Take a
look at what it comes to Hong Kong.
Yeah, you know when you take a look at
earnings there's still a bit of flare
there. So Xiaomi certainly is the one
that is a bit of a drag there.
You know when it came to the sales grew
grew the slowest since 2023 on the back
of those slumping smartphone demand.
We're watching HS Tech though mostly
higher. We're up close to 1% here and
that's really led by the likes of
Alibaba, Meituan, Tencent here this
morning. Baidu is flat. Renminbi is 689
levels here not seeing too much but
really it is relatively speaking okay
day when it comes to China earnings.
Apart from the Xiaomi story we had Wuxi
Biologics, China Oilfield, SenseTime,
Hisun.
Yeah, the interesting one to note is
Hisun, right? We did see the ADRs
actually slump overnight here as well
just given the fact that they are going
to be reporting earnings later on on
Thursday. But yeah, we're seeing an 8%
drop here right now when it comes to
Hisun. So price target also has been
lowered by some on the sell side BofA in
particular. So that's one to watch.
Software stocks are in focus here given
what we saw in US session here.
So this report of Amazon and these AI
tools. So you know we're watching very
closely what the the Asia software side
looks to to react to that and Kingsoft
for one thing is up some 3% and oil
stocks obviously they could be following
the price of oil lower here this
morning. There you go. CNOOC down some
5% Dave. Okay, let's get more into the
on the Xiaomi story.
Clearly was moving against the broader
grain today as far as direction is go
direction goes. 1.2%
we're pairing that a little bit 32 32.
The slowest quarterly growth since 2023.
You have strong sales of EVs though
failing to make up for the slump in
smartphone demand. Min Min Low our China
correspondent is here with us to help
unpack the earnings from the company.
Yes, so Xiaomi's revenue just met
expectations coming in at 7.3% growth on
year in the last quarter. But this is a
sharp deceleration from the previous few
quarters where we saw 20 to 30% growth
and net income as well was down by 27%.
The big hit is coming from the
smartphone sector which saw a 12%
decline in shipments and that's partly
because we have the memory chip shortage
that's pushing up prices as well and
it's IoT the Internet of Things segment
which is a home appliances. That's also
down by 20% which again shows you the
broader slowdown in consumption
sentiment in the last quarter of last
year. Perhaps a bit of subsidy fatigue
as well. The EV segment though is doing
very well.
It posted a 1.1 billion yuan profit so
extending the momentum that we saw from
the previous quarter when it turned
profitable for the first time. So the
company has set a target of 550,000
car deliveries this year.
That's a over 30% increase on year. It's
going to ramp up its overseas push and
it already added about hundreds of
stores overseas last year and it aims to
sell its first cars in Europe by 2027.
And of course Xiaomi is also dipping its
toes into AI agents as well. It's hoping
to develop its own open claw style AI
agent and it's earlier this year it
already experimented with with its own
humanoid robots in its factories. That's
making some progress and the company
will be scaling that up this year.
Pop Mart, that's really one thing to
watch here given that you know analysts
can't really make up their mind whether
to be bullish or bearish on this stock.
What what should we expect this time
around? So we are seeing really
impressive exponential growth last year.
We're talking about over 300 % increase
in net income for the full year. It's
expected to have sold about 400 million
units of toys of which a quarter of
those are the monster series which
includes the Labubus. But the big test
for this company has always been whether
the Labubus
one hit wonder or whether it can
replicate that success with its other
IPs. And so far we have seen the likes
of Twinkle Twinkle, Cry Baby, Skull
Panda. These are the ones that are
showing encouraging signs of quite
decent resale value in the second hand
market. But I think confidence will be
boosted if we see more blockbusters next
year. Of course the company has been
expanding its IP. It collaborated with
Sanrio so they're selling these Hello
Kitty sort of blind boxes as well. It's
partnering with Sony to launch a movie
and that is uncharted territory for the
company so that's a new test for them as
well. But yes, Morgan Stanley is saying
we could see a boost to its stock price
after earnings followed by a period of
range bound trading as investors wait
and see what else it can offer in the
coming years. The short term head window
is the Iran war because that's already
put a pause on its sales in the Middle
East. Longer term it leads to this
global economic slowdown. It could
affect its Southeast Asia sales as well.
All right, Minmin. Thank you, Minmin Low
there, our China correspondent. Um,
yeah, of course a lot to expect here.
Uh, earnings on deck as we talk about
sort of the pop war now that you know,
the boo-boos are over, what's next,
right? Anta's the next one. Why show
some of the techs names like Kingsoft
and the like. Uh, Pinduoduo as well. So
there's a bit of a consumer e-commerce
flare to that as well. Um, also, uh, I
have to correct myself. Hoside did
report earnings uh, yesterday here as
well. So that's why you're seeing that
big price move to the downside here. Uh,
fourth quarter revenue Uh, we did see
fall uh, rising there, but earnings did
fall. So the outlook uh, certainly maybe
it was a bit of a disappointment, too.
Yeah, I pouring over that earnings call
uh, transcript that we have access to as
well. Um,
so far nothing I mean the market's
already made up its mind given uh, the
market reaction today. Anyway, we'll
unpack that even further later on. We
are in case it's very easy to
uh, really miss uh, the forest among the
trees when I talk about the earning
story given of course the the noise the
trees is the analogy there of course
given what's taking place in
uh, in the Middle East. Uh, speaking
forest, the Boao Forum for Asia is
underway in Hainan and our chief North
Asia correspondent Stephen Engle is
there with his next guest. Steve.
All right, thanks a lot, David. Uh,
executive chairman of Fortescue Metals
is Andrew Forrest and he joins us now
here from the Boao Forum. Again, we are
here 20 straight years for me, you
probably more than that as you're a big
participant in this conference. But
obviously this year uh, we're going to
talk about the Chinese economy but also
the headwinds that are the the rest of
the world is facing. What is going to be
right now 4 weeks in with no end in
sight even though they're talking about
a ceasefire, they're talking, we're not
sure where the the true story is. What's
going to be the the tax if you will, the
penalty on global growth? Well, firstly,
thanks for having me on board. It's just
great great to be back with Bloomberg.
And also I want to make the point that
Bloomberg's contribution to Boao Forum
something we're all on the board very
proud of. So don't don't understate it.
It's fantastic. Um,
Now onto that very large large question,
what's what's going to happen? Um,
what I can say is that that wonderful
old ally of the United States, Ukraine,
and its
traditional adversary which so much
blood and treasure has been lost under
Russia,
um, even though Russia is such the
dominant power
and is bombarding everything everything
which moves in Ukraine,
what you see in Ukraine is three or four
odd years of a country under savage
bombardment and not giving up. And the
extreme
intellectual innovation which you see
happening in Ukraine to weather any
storm, to be able to fight back and
fight back hard and tough
>> Yeah. and make the overwhelming
superpower life super difficult. You you
saw it in Afghanistan with both Russia
and North America. You see it now with
Russia and and and Ukraine where I think
whatever happens Russia will leave
Ukraine licking its wounds. Now, Iran
Iran's been effectively at war with
itself with everyone else, Israel, for
as many decades as Ukraine has been uh,
years. Um, and it has inbuilt
resilience. Its energy systems is widely
fragmented. And the lever it has with
the Strait of Hormuz has prolonged it as
well. That is part of it, but you know,
if you're going to attack a country
which has had decades of preparation for
being attacked, it's not going to be
easy to attack it. And it's a huge
country. It's like
I mean you look at it on TV and it's
just a
a piece on a map. It's a massive
country. So stopping a country like that
retaliating
when you've put a a uh, threat on the
table that you're going to take out the
power systems of the country within a
number of days like this weekend,
that country, no matter how much you
bombard it as we've seen with Russia and
Ukraine, is going to be able to
retaliate and retaliate savagely. And
this time my fear is that its response
won't be surgical.
You've talked about catastrophic
consequences. That was your speech at
the CDF. Um, if that is the the case and
if oil prices, yes, they've pulled back
to below $100, but we were talking about
120 possibly, you know, ad infinitum if
the war went on in perpetuity. Um, what
does that do to what should it do to the
decarbonization talk as well as the
electrification charge which you've been
leading?
>> Okay, remember what's happening here. So
uh, if the Strait of Hormuz just closed
and that was it, um, and everyone's
policy stayed where their value system
was like you didn't take all the huge
uh, liabilities off Iranian oil, off
Russian oil. If if you just stayed with
the value system you had before the war,
um, then you'd have a much much higher
energy price. If the IEA wasn't out
there warning this is the worst energy
crisis in human history and saying
release your reserves now, um, then
you'd have a much higher energy price.
But they're
one trick ponies. They're not going to
last. If the war goes on and we've used
our reserves and we've we've taken the
sanctions off Iran, we've taken the
sanctions off Russia. Can you believe
there'd be day last year that you could
say that about 2026 that you'd actually
do that? No, but that's what is
happening.
If we exhaust those measures, then of
course you've you're back to the free
market and the free market will dictate
any oil price you like. And you can't
print electrons, baby. You can print US
dollars, but you're not going to print
electrons. So
this will become a very serious issue.
My point is to the United States and
Iran, reach an off ramp.
Re- Iran recognize Israel. Stop mucking
around. You've got no no earthly right
or heavenly right to eliminate another
country.
The United States
uh, find the off ramp quickly.
>> Do you feel I mean you talk to Chinese
leaders, you rub shoulders with them as
well for many years. Do you feel what
Wang Yi said overnight essentially that
there needs to be this kind of
diplomatic solution. They can play a
role. Uh, they are a little bit more
shielded for now on the oil shock
because of the reserves they've built up
and the resilience in renewables and the
like. Do you think China can be play
that role? They have close ties to Iran.
Less so with the Trump administration,
but they can play that middleman role.
Now, I'd say the Trump administration is
anything is highly pragmatic. I mean
it's going to deal with anybody. Um, so
if the Trump administration can see
value in in dealing with the Chinese
administration, it's going to deal with
the Chinese administration straight
away. So so
unless you just say you can for for all
the faults you might be able to throw at
the White House, it's pragmatic. So if
China can help, uh,
Trump will enlist China as quick as he
possibly can.
What price of oil or diesel would it
take to have a meeting of the minds
where maybe BHP backs off on its
persistent uh,
need they claim for this diesel excise
tax rebate which you say must be
abolished to hasten the electrification
trend? Yeah, here in Australia uh, I'm
sorry. Back in Australia um,
where we're shelling out 10 billion
dollars a year um, to subsidize diesel
of which at least half goes to
organizations which are amongst the most
profitable in Australia. Now, they're
the biggest taxpayers. Great, they're
making a wonderful contribution, but
they hardly need to take money from moms
and dads and put it in their own pockets
in the form of the diesel fuel rebate.
Moms and dads don't get a rebate. BHP,
Rio Tinto, Fortescue, we get a rebate.
Go figure that out. I mean it's So $150
a barrel, $200 a barrel, when does the
math work for a BHP? Uh, no, no, the
math work now, okay? The math work now.
This is this is the issue. This is the
opaque environment which we're dealing
in. It needs someone to break through.
Nothing is possible impossible until
it's possible.
>> Each giant excavator uses 1 million
liters of diesel a year,
>> Yeah. right?
>> Yeah. So
>> So there you go. Now
>> That is a huge cost per per machine.
Now, they're not small machines, but
it's a huge cost which disappears once
you go electric and you can power it
from a solar panel and a battery. Now,
the Prime Minister Albanese, I believe
on Monday there was an industry dinner
where he said now is the time to bury
the hatchet between say you and BHP and
others. Is that something that can be
reached where you can It's it's a nice
way of saying stop arguing with me.
>> [laughter]
>> So
um, but look,
if if there's a hatch to be buried, I
think it's it's around industrial
relations, it's around all the arguments
which BHP are having with the unions,
etc.
>> So taxes and regulations they want
reduced before they Yeah. But I can
accept a slashing of that. But the
diesel fuel rebate is an excess from uh,
pork barrel politics from well over a
decade ago. It's an ancient dinosaur.
Any government who keeps it going has
got to look mom and dad in the face in
the in this escalating energy price and
say we think you should keep subsidizing
indirectly
the
biggest players in Australia. And I'm
saying as one of the biggest players in
Australia, this isn't fair on moms and
dads. They should have gone green. Don't
argue you can't go green when the
technology is 100% there. If you're not
sure if it's there, have a little look
at China. It's quite a big player.
>> Yeah, you you said you're going to be
diesel-free within a couple of years,
right?
>> Yeah, and have a look at Fortescue,
Australia's most successful company.
We're not mucking around. We're business
people. We're scientists. We're
engineers. We're doing cuz the
technology is there. So so I need to you
pivoted to China and we're running out
of time, but I wanted to pivot to the
CMRG, the state-owned enterprise that
essentially has been built in China to
kind of
try and find the right pricing mechanism
in negotiations with the miners.
I think you have a very different tact
as well with BHP.
Will there come a day when it's going to
be necessary where you BHP and Rio Rio
and others can I'm not saying it's a
cartel, but you can kind of have You
mean do what CMRG is trying to do?
Try to cartel. Well, if they're a cartel
If they're a cartel, yeah, look. That is
that is
I find what CM
CM RG are doing
is acting in the best interest of China
and and I just say look
do that by all means. Make sure that the
really big dividends of people beginning
to trade in RMB, buying
ultra-competitive
Chinese equipment and not just buying it
from North America cuz what you've
already done, try cheaper, higher
quality, more more resistant and by the
way green equipment from China. Do all
of these things which are big dividend
boosters to China. Start playing around
with what keeps Australia's economy
rolling. You're kind of poking a bear.
And I'd say to CM RG, look, step
step away from that that that gun fight.
It isn't one worth having. There's a
market out there. The market served you
beautifully, but go for the big
dividends which is getting the RMB
accepted in into global currency,
getting trade and getting a demand for
your huge manufacturing and industrial
base. That's great for you.
Forming a a cartel on the to force down
the iron ore price will impact an
economy completely and it's a bit like
you know, when you
when you threaten someone who's got
nothing to lose, you could get any kind
of response. And all I'm saying is the
iron ore price is critical to
Australia's economy.
That's one thing you shouldn't take when
you're dealing with a country which has
got nothing to lose. Andrew Forrest,
we've just scratched the surface of
things. We need to get down to the
Pilbara and see your electrification
process.
>> You're in Bloomberg. So welcome, mate.
Let's celebrate your 20 years. All
right. Thanks so much. Okay, guys, just
scratching the surface with Andrew
Forrest, the executive chairman of
Fortescue Metals.
Yeah, it's probably the most unique way
to mark your 20 years, Steve.
A visit to Pilbara to
to to witness the electrification
process. Okay,
that's not code for anything, by the
way. I think that's quite literal.
Logistics visit at Anyway,
speaking of the need to take a plane,
airlines in focus today, Cathay Pacific,
a couple of other airlines, but not much
here. I mean, the reaction you would
expect given the risk rally, given maybe
potential off-ramp. As far as the
Philippines goes, of course, we had a
conversation with the Philippine
president and really more on what
they're doing as far as fuel goes and
maybe they might need to ground some
planes.
The Philippine Airlines actually
did say that they have enough fuel for
now. Short
way of saying that we will continue the
aviation conversation [music] on shows
today at those times on your screens
with those names. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right, we're checking software
stocks here in the region and yeah,
mostly are heading lower. I think the
Chinese ones are doing the opposite
story, but certainly there was this
report of Amazon launching these new AI
tools that is once again kind of
bringing up this whole disruption and
the whole AI sustainability sort of
concerns, Dave. Yeah, let's get more in
that story with Bell. She's here with us
on set. Yeah, talk us through this
latest scare. Well, it's exactly that.
It's it is that concern that now now
maybe Amazon's AWS is working on an AI
agent and the goal of this essentially
would be to automate some of the
functions
for sales, for business development,
other groups and importantly as well,
these are the sorts of functions that
have already been targeted in job cuts.
So it's extra sensitive, I guess, but
but you're looking at the workload
essentially that's usually handled by
thousands of different specialists in
areas like cybersecurity, server
networking. Again, that's according to
to the reporting we've heard so far that
is actually coming from the information.
I should note as well, not from from
Bloomberg, but the information's
reporting, but it does really come up
against what's been another bad day
really for software software theme
generally because you had Anthropic
saying it's Claude chatbot can now take
over a user's computer and and do things
like navigate a browser, fill in
spreadsheets, for instance. And as well,
adding to the anxiety, you had Ares
Ares Global Management Apollo Global
Management, rather, and then also Ares
Management, but but essentially limiting
withdrawals from some of their funds as
well, given the concerns of the exposure
to to software or loans, rather, to
software makers. So yeah, not a great
day for software and it is translating,
it seems, in large part to to some of
these names in Australia, but Japan
also, you can see here. Yeah, let's talk
about SK Hynix cuz we're seeing the
stock up in in Seoul, but the news of
them seeking a US listing this year.
Yeah, this is a this is a this is a big
one really for the company cuz you're
you're essentially opening it up to a
totally new pool of investors. You've
obviously got a very big valuation gap
for for SK Hynix as opposed to some of
its global peers, but they've submitted
the form F-1. So this is a document
essentially that acts as a primary
registration for foreign companies that
are looking at doing an IPO in the US.
And the idea is
about giving investors more details on
the business, its functions, the
different management, different risk
factors,
etc. etc. So what we learned out of that
is that yes, SK Hynix does want to have
these ADR listings this year. We don't
have any date yet for that. We also
don't know the type
or the decision on the on the share type
as well, but it has been reported in
local media that SK Hynix is looking to
raise up to $10 billion out of this. So
really significant sum of money could be
used to do things like fund AI
infrastructure, for instance. And as I
said, would give it a
fresh pool of investors essentially cuz
it is interesting when you look at
TSMC's ADRs, for instance, they
consistently trade at a really strong
premium to the Taipei-listed shares.
Even last year it was it was north of
30%.
Okay, Bell, thank you. Annabelle there
on all of the tech stories we're
tracking today. Right, just a look at
markets right now. The top movers on the
Hang Seng Index, Dongfeng Spring is an
earnings story. Shares are up. Full-year
income outperforming there. Citi's out
with a note, the 31% net profit growth
in 2025 was 6% above consensus thanks to
stronger-than-expected top-line growth.
That's according to to Citi. Some of the
gold plays, of course, which had been in
focus as late and the risk rally in gold
prices on the way up. Obviously, Zijin
Gold is still leading that. 8% to the
upside. Zijin Mining, of course, is the
other notable gold play on this list
today.
We're looking at benchmarks, risk
[music] rally to a lesser extent in
Greater China, still a rally
nonetheless.
Hang Seng Tech is [music] up 1.6, which
underscores that the tech plays are
outperforming today. One market to keep
an eye [music] on, Indonesia, reopening
after quite a long time of being shut.
Top of the next hour, plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg. [music]
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300 a half hour into the
session. [music] It's sunny skies in
Shanghai. When it comes to risk assets,
things are looking a little bit brighter
just given what we heard in the last 24
hours when it comes to a possible
ceasefire that the US is seeking here
when it comes to the Iran war. There's
talks of also maybe talking about this
15-point plan to end this war and I
think markets are taking it right now
and as a good sign that maybe we're
getting closer to some sort of deal. But
then again, there is also the element of
boots on the ground, right? Where you're
talking about, you know, 2,000 up to
3,000 troops airborne troops that are
heading to the Middle East region. So
certainly there's going to be a lot on
tap here today, but certainly at least
for now, we're seeing a brief a sigh of
relief. Yeah.
Not that it lasts.
You're going to call it now? Not going
to last.
And here's And here's why. And I think
it's it's not like I have a crystal ball
or anything, but the way this
if this is, of course, that off-ramp
markets will need to be ready for
negative headlines that paint outline
what that actually looks like, right? So
we'll need
if if if troops are in fact on the way,
these headlines will drop that troops
have arrived
in the vicinity and all those other
things, of course.
The point I'm trying to make is that
we've been saying this like the
president will decide when he decides
and at that point, of course, we will
need to see a lot of moving parts still.
It's worth pointing out there were still
some explosions a few hours back. We
still haven't heard conclusively from
the Iranian side what their plans are,
what the end game is for Israel. We have
seen a lot more commentary from
parties that have up until recently not
really wanting to be this close to the
issue. Gulf Arab states, the Chinese
have chimed in as well.
That's just to say it's going to be
volatile for a while, but hopefully of
course
I'm wrong, right? Anyway, that's just a
way of saying watch this very, very
closely. Commodity markets though, Brent
is below 100 bucks, which obviously
takes some of the sting away.
Uh but we're still mighty eight, right?
We're still up 20, 25%. Um for the year.
Dollar China, dollar Japan, the dollar
is also painting that similar picture of
relief. Uh we're weaker against most Um
and we're stronger against across the
complex here. Yields are also on the way
down following this melt up in in yields
uh that we've seen of late. So, we have
not completely reversed all the way
back, but we are seeing yields across
the board today as we speak on the way
down. But yeah, it's it's it's it's a
decent picture for risk just to book end
that too.
>> Yeah, you know, they're focusing on
peace, the potential for peace, and kind
of looking through
uh what what what we've been seeing when
it comes to the sort of the military
side of things. And let's get to that
first, right? The US is said to be
sending 2,000 army troops to the Middle
East even as President Trump signals
that negotiations for a truce are
underway. Bloomberg Economics has mapped
out some of the paths if US troops are
deployed. To tell us more, let's bring
in our senior defense research analyst
Wayne Sanders. He joins us from DC. Uh
Wayne, it's great to have you on the
program. Um first of all, just tell us a
bit more. I mean, do you think that this
is actually just negotiating tactics or
or are we really talking about boots on
the ground now in the Middle East?
Thanks so much for having me. I I really
do believe that this is more still
strategic messaging. The 82nd Airborne
Division who they're talking about right
now specifically, they're global
reaction force. So, they had already had
their orders uh
they were supposed to be doing a
training exercise a few weeks ago. They
had already had that removed so they
could remain into this almost like ready
cycle uh for something like this. And uh
this is still a very strong messaging
without ever having to put boots on the
ground. Uh we we pretty much uh put
together a scenario between Bloomberg
Intelligence and and Bloomberg
Economics. We started looking at the
different scenarios that could actually
be used not only for the 82nd Airborne
Division, but also with the 13th Marine
Expeditionary Unit that's on their way
on the USS Tripoli, uh which is supposed
to be able to arrive on Friday. When you
put these pieces together, right? You
have the ability
to seize if we were looking at like
Kharg Island specifically, uh especially
for the oil export uh portion of it.
Seizing it, it comes at a very high
risk. So, when we look at some of these
things, you're landing on Iranian soil.
It's significant resource intensive. It
drains interceptors as well that the US
is holding on to uh because now you've
created pretty much a target uh on that
specific area. You could also quarantine
much like the Venezuela playbook, which
uses a lot of naval uh vessel assets.
It's not going to be using a whole lot
of the 82nd Airborne in that, but the
Marines would still play a part.
Uh neutralizing Iranian threats uh along
the area, especially like along the
coastlines could be a third to create a
buffer zone for to counter missiles and
drones in preparation for potentially
maybe something like an escort,
uh which you've heard President Trump
talk about and he's tried to get allies
involved as well in this uh to board and
secure ships on board security teams. Um
and the Marines would once again play a
part in this as well. And then the last
one, very all of these are very high
risk. So, uh all of these risk uh boots
on the ground kind of scenario for
President Trump um because you're you're
taking it out of just an air campaign
that you've seen up until this point. Um
and one of the ones the very, very
slight chance, I'm not putting very much
into this, is trying to seize enriched
uranium and going in specifically to be
able to uh put boots on the ground to
verify the 441 kg of enriched uranium.
The problem doing that is you're now
definitely in the mainland at this point
in time. This is not something like
Kharg Island. So, I put that at the
highest uh the highest risk politically.
Hm.
Wayne, Da- David here. Sorry, not the
Telegraph, not that we know uh military
strategy, but just a simple question.
How do they get there? Because they Are
they Are we Are we going to see naval
forces through the Strait of Hormuz? Are
they Are Are Are they Are they flying
in? Um How How How How How How How How
would this work? Sorry, that might be
just a simplistic question.
No, I mean, depending on the the
military plans would probably go for all
of these, right? So, you're looking for
most likely most dangerous courses of
action as they build out their their war
games, if you will, right? They're going
to they're going to try and figure out
whether or not this would be a fast boat
approach, whether or not you're looking
at one of the amphibs, the amphibious
vehicles that would go in to be able to
do this. Where would the destroyers be
during that point in time? Uh whether or
not they would bring in additional uh
capability. If you're looking at the
Airborne the 82nd Airborne, well, it's
just that, right? They could actually uh
they could actually parachute in
directly onto Kharg. Uh and then from
that they they could secure some of
these areas. And then the Marines would
still be able to use whether it's their
Ospreys or some of these other uh to be
able to do some type of vertical attack
uh into the area so they could actually
go. All these plans are up to place, but
like you even said, if you put some of
these Navy Navy vessels, some of the
larger ones, you're creating a very high
value target for the Iranians to try and
take the remainder cruise missiles,
ballistic missiles, as well as their
drones and throw everything they can
because all it takes is one US Navy
vessel to go down the straits for that
to be [clears throat] pretty
catastrophic for the Trump
administration.
All right, Wayne, thank you so much. A
Bloomberg Economics senior defense
research analyst Wayne Sanders there. Uh
and Dave, yeah, as we talk about the
Strait of Hormuz, we're still kind of
tracking what sort of tanker traffic
we're actually seeing, right? There are
some signs of There was a Thai vessel
that went through safely. Uh there's
reports according to our sources of of
Iran charging transit fees of up to 2
million uh per tank, you know. What What
do you know at this point? What are we
tracking? Uh I mean, you those probably
could all be accurate, but the fact is
um I think as the title of our chart
just lays out quite nicely, there is
really nothing much to see here still in
as far as traffic I think we showed this
chart about a week back. And what we've
done is we've added not just tankers
here, bulk dry bulk, commercial cargo.
So, the whole gamut, if you will, all
the types of vessels that you would
imagine would be needing to pass through
that apart from obviously military. And
as you can see, that has just basically
collapsed. Uh just I guess in context,
right? So, tankers specifically, so oil
tankers, the the 24-hour average and and
that that that's in orange right here.
The 24-hour average going into this was
at about near 60, and now we're near
zero. So, that just gives you an
indication of really how that uh the
volumes and traffic that has effectively
dried up up until. And you might get of
course a few ones passing through, but
nothing that moves the needle as far as
markets and commerce goes, I guess is
the
>> Yeah. Um and it just goes to show,
right? Any even signs of any sort of
ceasefire, it may take a while for this
waterway to open up. And let's let's not
forget, of course, the amount of energy
infrastructure that needs to be repaired
uh from the the damage that we've seen
from the past 3 weeks or so. So,
certainly there's a lot still in terms
of the economic implications and the
like. Let's get to our next guest on
just the on just the latest, right?
Behnam Ben Taleblu is Iran Program
Senior Director and Senior Fellow at the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies.
Uh Behnam, it's great to have you on the
program. Um you know, a lot's happened
last 24 hours. I'm just wondering, you
know, in your eyes, are we getting a bit
more clarity?
A- Are we actually seeing the light at
the tunnel with this war now?
Great to be with you, Yvonne. Thanks,
David. Listen, I think the Islamic
Republic and the the Trump
administration right now are keen not to
show their cards. I think the Trump
administration in particular uh is
showing that it can walk and chew gum at
the same time. It can continue to defang
uh the regime's missile, military, and
drone programs while also talking about
a potential end state. And in the past
24 hours, the Trump administration has
been signaling both to concerned
citizens, policy makers, allies,
adversaries, and perhaps most
importantly markets that there may be an
end in sight sooner than the president
himself had let on just about a week
ago. Uh certainly I think a lot of that
is hand-holding particularly for energy
markets. Um how that actually squares
with who they're talking to in the
Islamic Republic and can that person or
institution deliver? All that remains to
be seen, but for the next 5 days, uh
this is going to be a quite the
nail-biter, one that will be affecting
markets as well as US strategy uh for
weeks to come.
So, what what realistic options then
should we entertain uh as as possible
the next 5 days then?
Well, one is that you have a slight
pause in military operations or a slight
slow down uh in military operations
while the political space is created uh
to explore the option uh of potentially
coming up with a deconfliction or
ceasefire agreement. Uh the second is
actually an intensification, an
intensification of all sides as they
look to signal battlefield resolve as
politically they test each other and try
to negotiate some kind of a ceasefire.
Uh another is that by the end of the 5
days, you actually see this to be some
kind of psychological warfare and a
political feint and actually just an
attempt by the administration to calm
markets to create space for the arrival
of additional assets, troops, uh whatnot
into the region to be able to seize uh
something like Kharg Island or reopen uh
something like the Strait of Hormuz or
potentially to conduct a raid in the
future to go after Iran's fissile
material uh that is believed to be
entombed in a place like Isfahan. Quite
literally right now, despite everybody
talking about a ceasefire, all options
still very much remain on the table for
the Trump administration, which I could
say probably looks like based on the
rhetoric of the past 24 hours, looks
like it's interested in finding if there
is an Iranian version of Delcy
Rodríguez. I've got to tell you as an
Iran watcher and knowing this regime, uh
there really isn't one. That's the thing
that has duped so many American
presidents for the past four decades,
you know, the elusive search for the
Iranian moderate. It would be a shame
for the Trump administration to have to
have to spend this much money, time,
capital, and resources to find something
out that other previous presidents found
out for much cheaper, uh but
nonetheless, here's where we are.
>> [snorts]
>> So,
you said some of the US that they're
they're eager to try to get out of this
war. What what does it mean for regime
change then? Do you think that the
President President Trump is now willing
to accept things now where where there
is no Delcy Rodriguez of of Iran?
Um and how does that differ with what
Israel wants and their objectives?
Well, I think very interesting
commentary today by the President. He
hinted that given the number of
political and military elite that had
been, you know, physically removed from
the scene over the past 3 and 1/2 weeks
in Tehran, uh the regime does look very
different. But uh this regime is
coarsening, it's hardening. What seems
to be left of it is a national security
rump state, which leave the leaves the
President with unattractive options. He
could press ahead. In my view, there is
really no way out but through here. We
don't have many societies uh like the
Iranian society in the Middle East that
are that pro-American, that are that
pro-Israeli, that are that willing uh to
endure costs. They don't simply want to
be used and abused as a shiv against the
regime. But ultimately, the Israelis
also have options here. Uh they could,
you know, take a short-term military win
and benefit from the regime's missile
program being defanged, or they could
try to go for something covert and
longer-term potentially returning to
sabotage or stepping up sabotage uh and
covert activity uh against what's left
of the regime's security apparatus, uh
as well as those involved in its missile
and nuclear programs in a post-ceasefire
situation. But I would just caution
audiences and markets
uh that just because America and Israel
are firing at different targets and
using different tactics doesn't mean
that they don't have the same strategy.
The same overall strategy is to use
military force to weaken the Islamic
Republic and to create the conditions
for a potentially different kind of
government. Now, what that different
kind of government looks like, how much
of it is based on internal versus exiled
opposition, for example, all that
remains to be seen. But I think the
Trump administration is still looking
for the path of least resistance. And
that's something that everyone has to
keep their eyes on as the war widens
over the next 5 days as much as there's
talk of a ceasefire.
And and and where does that that
point who starts that point of the
process? In other words, if
if let let's say the US and Israel
go 99%. Someone still needs to take that
1% move from the other side in as far as
regime change or you know, we've been
debating right now who
you know, which party, which which
individual might make more sense. It's
still unclear to markets who who
triggers that 1% move that might
constitute the end game here.
It depends. You know, are you talking
about uh who from inside in Iran would
be willing to uh you know, do a deal uh
with uh the Trump administration or
Israel? You know, if that's the case
right now, there's speculation that it's
the current civilian head
uh of the parliament, uh Mr. Qalibaf,
who previously uh was an IRGC veteran
and a Tehran mayor and a failed
presidential candidate several times.
You know, he's quite the opportunist
despite being the hardliner. But even
that kind of person, there's real
questions how much of the military
establishment can he bring along with
him? How quickly can he deliver? Can he
turn off the fire? And most importantly,
would he have the support of the street?
I think the short answer there is
absolutely not. So, if the Trump
administration is going to be hanging
their hat on this individual in the
hopes of stabilizing the region, I think
the street has shown that there's going
to be another thing coming.
Mhm.
Do you get a sense that this is a war
that the US is losing control of,
Behnam? And what when we talk about, you
know, Saudi Arabia, the UAE is also
contemplating whether to join in
uh on on these attacks, uh what goes
through your mind?
Well, there there's two critical
questions there. One is, you know,
control. I don't think militarily the
Americans are losing control, but what
is happening in terms of paradigm and
what is happening in terms of narrative
uh is critical, and I would say that
paradigm change would not favor the
Trump administration. And that paradigm
change is that a conflict that was begun
over political issues and security
issues is due to Iranian retaliation
fast moving to become a conflict that is
defined by energy and economics. And
that unfortunately does favor the
Islamic Republic because it puts
Washington in a bind to have to go big
or go home in order to do things like
seize the Strait of Hormuz or reopen the
straits or potentially do damage to
Iranian uh oil and other energy exports.
Uh it puts Washington in the bind of
having to think through bigger more
complex operations that generate more
risk to mission, more risk to life, uh
and things of that nature. So, that is
part of the Iranian strategy here. Both
sides are playing chicken. Both sides
are trying to attrit the other, but what
they're trying to attrit is
fundamentally different. Israel and
America are trying to attrit Iran's
military capabilities and capacity,
while the Islamic Republic is trying to
attrit American resolve uh to stay in
the fight. And it's too soon to tell who
will have the upper hand uh because
militarily and politically, things look
very different in Tehran and Washington
by the minute.
The
as you point out, I think in an article
uh 1 or 2 weeks back, Behnam, you you
know, the only way out is through
the the Strait of Hormuz as you as as
it's been put.
If if the US
was capable of reopening the strait, I
would imagine they would have already.
What what options do you think they have
to reopen that that that that choke
point, which as you point out, Iran has
been leveraging a lot?
Well, I would I would put it in the
reverse, David. I think certainly the
capability to do it there exists. You
know, the US did this when it was
weaker, when the Iranian threat looked
fundamentally different, and that was in
the 1980s, for example, during the end
of the Tanker War
uh in the latter part of the Iran-Iraq
War, which by the way was the 20th
century's longest conventional conflict.
Many people forget about that conflict.
It set the blueprint for the regime's
security strategy today. It got them
obsessed with deterrence and led them to
engage in all the maritime harassments
we've seen over the past 4 decades cuz
it signaled that it works. Now,
Washington does have options. If you had
to uh come up with one on the fly, it
would look like clearing it would look
like first suppressing missile fire,
suppressing drone fire, uh potentially
holding parts of the southern coastline,
uh fighting not just necessarily the
Islamic Republic Navy, but the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy, not
going against bigger boats, but actually
smaller fast attack craft, not just
going against ports, but going against
jetties, smaller smaller facilities
where these little vessels can you know,
basically be launched into sea from. And
only once you have done that massive
suppression mission of enemy fire could
you move in with things like
minesweepers. And then after you do the
minesweeping, could you move in with
things like a convoy uh to move uh
international commerce through the
strait again. This would probably be at
a minimum a 3-week operation. It has
significant cost and risk, uh but
nonetheless, I think the administration
is looking for what other options are
available to it, which is why it's talk
about multilateralizing this, getting
European support, Asian support
potentially. Uh it's talk about trying
to get Iran to voluntarily open the
strait again. It's looking for other
options before it actually has to pull
the trigger on something like this, but
make no mistake, it is absolutely
possible. I mean, the Islamic Republic
understands that this is an Achilles'
heel, but it's an Achilles' heel shared
by everyone including itself.
Of course, I mean, figuratively and
literally the way you put that, you're
shooting yourself in in in in the foot.
Uh
Behnam, fantastic. Thank you so much for
breaking it down for us. Behnam Ben uh
Taleblu there, Iran Program senior
director and senior fellow at the think
tank, the Foundation for Defense [music]
and
of of Democracies. Uh lots more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right. Uh [music] Brent crude prices
over the last, what, let's call it 5
calendar days, 5 trading days to be more
specific. Okay, so we touched, as you
can see, at one point above 118 and have
since paired it back by about 20 bucks
from that point in time.
Um yeah, we're still a lot of headline
risk across markets. Um still Rania Neo
is is with us, our Asia oil trading
reporter. Today, what's the latest on on
oil prices? And we are seeing them fall
today.
All right. So, the fall in oil prices is
not unexpected. Ever since the overnight
developments coming from the US about
how there's a seemingly more signs that
uh we could be approaching a ceasefire
and a potential resolution to this
conflict. Now, just over the past few
hours, we have heard um plans for US to
um go into a ceasefire agreement, a
15-point proposal, uh and all. But uh
so, traders are still digesting all this
information, but I would say that in the
past couple of weeks, this is probably
one of the most uh resolute development
for them where there was actually a
physical indication and timeline that
this conflict could seemingly come to an
end. But of course, let's not forget um
just in the this week alone, uh there
were plenty of, I would say, um
turns of events that has happened so
far. So, uh of course, US President
Trump uh started off with the 48-hour
deadline, which he subsequently walked
back on. So, traders, although we are
seeing prices fall, but traders are
still cautious because ultimately, oil
prices would depend on how physical
flows could potentially resume.
Yeah, talk about those physical flows
because President Trump said that Iran
offered him a gift, a present, uh that
related to energy flows. Uh what what
more do we know at this point about how
much traffic is or or lack of traffic
that we're seeing in the in the Strait
of Hormuz now?
All right. So, it's still unclear what
exactly this gift President Trump was
referring to. But of course we know that
a Thai uh ship has actually made its way
across the street. And of course if you
couple if we add it up with a couple of
developments we have seen such as Iran
sending letters a letter to members of
the International Maritime Organization
to say that for essentially for ships
that are not their enemies,
they are available to allow these ships
to transit through the strait. And we
have also seen some of these ships being
told to pay essentially a toll charge.
So that has sent some signals to the
market that flows could resume, but of
course there are a lot of uncertainties
out there in the air. For instance, we
don't know how the Gulf producers
these producers of oil like Kuwait, like
Saudi Arabia, how they feel about
pushing or giving control over the
strait's opening to Iran because
essentially Iran is the player that's
managing all these. It's also unclear
over how insurance policies could be
carried out. So it's not that clear or
rather this is just a small development
in terms of how we are seeing flows
resume in the strait.
All right. Rongwei, thank you. Rongwei
there our Asia oil trade reporter
joining us out of Singapore. We have
plenty more coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right. Welcome back. Just a
almost an hour into the cash market
session here. So we're looking at
>> [music]
>> a reversal of yesterday's weakness. Is I
leading the greater Chinese rally today
A over H within the H shares [music]
index now on your screens.
I can tell you that Hang Seng Tech is
actually also doing quite well today.
S&P futures [music] are to the upside
although we are coming off highs a
little bit on that contract. We have
plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
>> [music]
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break in just
a moment and you take a look at what it
comes to what we're seeing. It is risk
sentiment coming back. We're up about 2
and 1/2% or more for the Nikkei. Topix
is also seeing gains of similar amounts.
So certainly this relief rally is
continuing in the Asia Pacific here
today and you are seeing some of the
North Asia beneficiaries here today and
outperforming even China here today. So
there you go. We're flat when it comes
to dollar yen. Yields are not doing a
whole lot though. We have seen when it
comes to bonds they have been actually
seeing a bit of relief here just given,
you know, people have been pricing out
the possibility of rate rate cuts. I
think now we we're seeing a bit of a
reversal of that now too. Yeah, I think
yields are pushing down. The dollar is
weaker as you were pointing out. So
that's really creating this platform for
stocks to to move to the upside. At 2%
that should be we should be looking at
one of the best days since the start of
the war 3 4 weeks back on a benchmark
basis that is.
We're looking at the weakness in the
dollar and the counterpart there is the
bottom row right side second from the
right which is the Bloomberg Asia dollar
index. So we're looking at some strength
coming through there.
Infotech which is the left most side
tile first row which is really
indicative of the tech rally. So that's
everything from
some of the big hardware plays. We
talked about SK Hynix of course in that
listing in the US which is also lifting
of course
the benchmark there. Just okay, let's
let's get a sense of the how markets
have done
since things kicked off really kicked
off in the Middle East, right? So over a
month we're still down on stocks down a
lot 7%.
Keep in mind of course it was that
weekend where we went from Feb to March
when things really began there. The
dollar is still stronger as you can see.
Third is bonds and we have obviously
done horribly when you see this melt up
in yields. And it's really commodities
where that's really stood out in as far
as the energy price is concerned. So
cross asset this is how this is how
things look over the last month. and
King dollar really have been the
standouts here. Let's go get more on
just in terms of the implications of
this war for insurers and long-term
investors and joining us exclusively now
is Edward Moncreiffe insurance CEO at
HSBC Group. Edward, it's great to have
you back on the program. I'm just
wondering, right? It seems like it's
this new normal where every day we're
we're woken up to whiplash volatility in
virtually every single asset class. Does
it change at all your your investment
strategy or and your allocation? Yeah,
first of all thank you for having me
back. You're right. Every day we see
volatility. We see turbulence. We we see
risk and and we're seeing it through
both sides of our business both sides of
the balance sheet. So on the asset side,
you know, as a large institutional
investor we're holding 120 billion
dollars of investment assets on behalf
of our policy holders. Valuations are
stretched in equities real record highs
credit spreads real record lows as
geopolitical and public sector policy
uncertainty every day potential
structural reflation. You've got sectors
being targeted by the AI revolution. So
on the asset side for investors there's
no free lunch. And there's a lot of
emphasis now for us on diversification
portfolio resilience. And on the
liabilities for us as an insurer, I mean
fundamentally our clients are looking
now to de-risk. And that's a big
tailwind for us because we ultimately
offer safe haven solutions. What's
particularly noticeable right now is
you've got market volatility
geopolitical uncertainty marrying with
these long-term demographic structural
tailwinds. And we're seeing an explosion
in demand for estate planning for
geographical legacy planning wealth
transfer solutions and where we're a
global leader. So so long long story
short, I mean there's a lot of risk.
We're in the risk business and risk is a
double-edged sword for us. On the asset
side, what have been the biggest
adjustments you guys have made over the
over the last few weeks?
>> Yeah, I mean
first of all I mean we're a liability
driven investor
and our liabilities are very long-term.
Our average liability is over 20 years
and very very illiquid. So so typically
we don't overreact to short-term
fluctuations like we're seeing in
markets this year. But on the other hand
we got a lot of new money coming in.
Demand for our solutions is very high.
Our annualized premium last year was 6
and 1/2 billion dollars. It was up 30%
year on year and we needed to deploy
that capital. And when we see sort of
market dislocations like we see now when
we see liquidity events for other
investors that that presents
opportunities for investors like us who
can invest through the cycle. So I mean
a couple of things. One I mean obviously
we've seen a re-rating on on fixed
income. That higher yields is positive
for us. It increases our new money yield
we're able to offer to clients. On
equities we're slightly overweight on
Asia versus US. We see stronger sort of
growth earnings potential and we see
more attractive relative valuations.
And in private markets we continue to
allocate to private markets to optimize
for for portfolio diversification
vintage diversification particularly in
private equity and particularly as a
result of liquidity challenges elsewhere
in things like secondaries and
co-investments where we see quite
attractive opportunities. You mentioned
the private markets. How much exposure
do you have in private credit in the
moment and and how much of that is in
the software space? Private credit
relatively low exposure for us in terms
of our strategic asset allocation. What
I'd say on on private credit is
for us again it's around having a
resilient and diversified approach to
that asset class. So our portfolio
private credit is extremely well
diversified over 1600 loans. We play in
the senior secured low LTV space and
we're a long-term illiquid mandates as
well. So
you know, we're structurally I think
very resilient against any kind of
liquidity events that may be happening
in other parts of the
>> What's the percentage of your total
investment? Less than less than 5%.
>> Okay. Okay, that's private credit
specifically.
You know, I guess it's it's good to hear
from someone like you that is used to
not just investing through cycles. I
mean you're very long-term. I mean
people tend to forget private credit did
come at an illiquidity premium because
you have to sit on this for a long time.
What do you think the message Do you
think there was a
What what message do you think was
missed between this retail crowd that's
got an end to it
and they're concerned right now that
they can't get access or full access to
their money.
How do we need to be coming out of this
in terms of the messaging from both the
sellers of private credit and of course
the would-be buyers? It's a good
question. I'm not sure I'm I'm best
placed to answer it as as a long-term
insurer as a long-term asset asset
owner. But again, I mean I think you
said it David perfectly. There is an
illiquidity premium that comes with the
illiquidity cost of some of these asset
classes and particularly with private
markets. And for investors like us with
illiquid liabilities they provide pretty
good matching capability. For investors
who are looking for more liquid
solutions, there are frankly alternative
opportunities out there with you
Michael.
You mentioned about the amount of wealth
transfer and the potentials that you're
seeing
in this region [clears throat]
into the life insurance sort of
channels, right? Right? I think 5.8
trillion is the amount that you guys put
on generational wealth transfer.
By 2030 how much can life insurance tap
into that sort of opportunity?
>> Yeah, I mean a lot I think. I mean what
what's fascinating is I think we are
absolutely living in the age now of the
great wealth transfer. I think it
started in the west several years ago as
the baby boomers looked to transfer to
Gen X and now that tidal wave is is
right bang in Asia.
And being amplified by some of the
cultural dynamics I think we see in Asia
in relation to legacy planning and the
desire to leave for children and
grandchildren. So I mean we just we just
a couple of things. I mean shameless
plugs. We we just been recognized by
Euromoney as the the world's leading
insurer for wealth management. We we've
grown our new business profits by 35% to
3.4 billion dollars last year and a lot
of that is being driven by high net
worth demand for wealth transfer.
Yesterday we released our flagship
research on legacy planning to your
point. We identify 5.8 trillion dollars
of wealth that will be transferred to
the next generation in the next 5 years.
According to our research, now for the
first time insurance has surpassed wills
as the preferred mechanism for managing
legacies and for managing estate
planning. So the long answer is I would
I would expect quite a lot. And and the
second the second point that our
research shows is that the key trigger
for legacy planning is macroeconomic and
market volatility. Now our research was
undertaken with 9,000 high net worths Q4
last year, so before recent events in
the Middle East have happened. So again,
I I we are in the risk business. These
are risk triggers. These are going to
catalyze into increased demand for
legacy solutions. Our
preferences for solutions, do they vary
as you go down the age scale? In other
words, on the younger demographic of
high net worth, do they have a different
preference in terms of how they look at
succession planning and passing their
wealth? Or is it because people are just
getting older then they have to go life
insurance over wills and you know.
>> Well, I mean the the answer is the
same as with our conversation investment
markets. There's no silver bullet here.
I mean a genuinely sort of diversified
legacy plan will be a combination of
different instruments including life
insurance. We do see more appetite
amongst the younger generation for life
insurance because they are looking for
capital appreciation,
you know, as well as the capital
preservation. And life insurance is
quite an effective way to do that. But
even at the upper end of the high net
worth scale, we see a particular in Asia
a lot of our our target clients are very
exposed to concentration risk and
illiquidity risk because their wealth is
wrapped up in business, in single stock
or in property.
And it's these are illiquid assets. And
as we said at the beginning, you know,
that the challenge with the crisis that
we're facing in markets today are
ultimately ones of you need
diversification and you need liquidity.
So again, insurance is a solution that's
solving for those needs for clients that
have, you know, a a lot of downside risk
to manage. You issued about 450
legacy policies last year. How much of
that was it a majority from Hong Kong,
China? I mean Yeah, so so
we Yeah, so 450 legacy policies we
issued last year of 10 million dollars
or above, which is how we define our
high net worth. So
and that went up to kind of 400 million
dollars
in terms of scale. Now it's your answer.
We have a Hong Kong, China sort of
nexus. Obviously it's Hong Kong Shanghai
Banking Corporation as the leading
insurer in Hong Kong.
Roughly two-thirds of our high net worth
portfolio is coming from greater China.
But we are serving high net worth
clients from 24 different markets across
the world. I won't name them out each,
but they are literally global.
And I think this can comes out in our
research that we are seeing the
internationalization of estate planning.
And we are seeing this onshore to
offshore flow of legacy wealth. Yeah.
And Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE, you know,
these are the international financial
capitals that I think stand the most to
gain from these structural trends. And
just in terms of the could be different,
the fastest growing from the biggest
markets, which is greater China to your
point. We're seeing newly minted
millionaires, billionaires.
>> Taiwan, yeah. Taiwan, Korea, this market
rally. Are those How are you looking at
those growth markets? We look at I mean
again, it's an onshore to offshore
wealth flow that that we're focused on.
In terms of volume, of course, you know,
greater China being, you know, Hong Kong
being the doorstep to China is going to
be the largest flow of that. But it we
are attracting flows from all across
Asia. Taiwan actually is one of our
largest residency markets.
And and Korea, we're serving clients
from Indonesia, from Malaysia, from from
Brunei, from from all over the region.
And I think if you look at the Hong Kong
market in particular with the the the
deep balance sheets that we have here,
with the level of advisory capability we
have across banks, brokers, agencies,
then I think Hong Kong has a lot to gain
in capturing that flow. You mentioned
UAE as a hub, a potential hub. I mean,
does the Iran situation anyway change
your strategy in the Middle East?
>> No, I I mean as a group we're we're
fully committed to to the Middle East. I
mean it it is an emerging wealth hub
both onshore and onshore to to offshore.
And I don't see that that changing. And
I think, you know, wealth markets,
[snorts]
you know, Hong Kong being another one,
have demonstrated significant resilience
over multiple, you know, domestic and
international political events over the
past 5 to 10 years.
And we would fully expect UAE to bounce
back through this as well.
Edward, thank you so much for spending
the time with us. You almost named all
24 actually. You were only off by
[laughter] five or six. Thank you so
much. Fantastic.
Edward Moncreiffe there, of course, HSBC
Group Insurance
CEO. Right, you can check out that
specific conversation we just had on the
Bloomberg video hub.
Subscribers can also explore things like
live programming, documentaries, [music]
explainers, report analysis and more.
Check it out on that link [music] you
see bottom of your screens.
>> [music]
>> We have fuel security, but we have
stepped [music] up a government response
to anticipate that in the future there
could be disruptions to supply as
[music] we source a lot of our refined
fuel out of South Korea and Singapore.
And it's obviously that region of the
world [music]
that has been impacted by disrupted
access to crude oil out of the Middle
East. So we are working closely [music]
with fuel importers to ensure that if
required, they are able to source
alternative [music] forms of supply.
Yeah, one of the conversations we had
here on Bloomberg Television, that was
>> [music]
>> the New Zealand Finance Minister Nicola
Willis speaking with us Wellington
earlier on. Right, from that we pivot
now to the Philippines, another big
conversation we had. The country has
declared a national energy
emergency that will be enforced for a
year as the war in Iran disrupts global
oil supply. Now prior to that
declaration, President Bongbong Marcos
told us exclusively
that the ongoing conflict could spur a
breakthrough in energy talks
with China.
I think it's going certainly going to
happen. I don't think
that's something that we can that is
like an option.
That's it's happening now. The there's
going to be a very very serious
restructuring.
I remember I was watching
Prime Minister Wong and
from Singapore and he was saying they
will they will be we will have to
withdraw redraw
all of our of our even our legal
legal relationships in terms of
international law, in terms of all of
these things. They they will have a
lasting effect.
And there is there will have to be a new
normal. Is there reason to think that
maybe it is a good idea to to have a
partnership in developing the gas
resources in the disputed areas in the
South China Sea? We've always tried
to differentiate the territorial
disputes
from our trade arrangements. And many
many investments still of the big
programs here of the government are
coming from China.
And they have not used this as somehow
they haven't leveraged this and in any
way. In quite the contrary, they've been
very very helpful in terms of for
example, fertilizer, which is we import
a great deal
of fertilizer from China. So would you
consider developing gas resources with
China in the disputed regions, areas in
the South China Sea? Is that something
you might consider?
>> talking about for a great deal.
But the territorial disputes still get
in the way of that. Maybe this will be
provides impetus for both sides to to
come to an agreement.
>> The Iran war, do you support the US
Israel war against Iran? It certainly
certainly was unexpected.
And we never want war.
The our our our foreign policy is
is very very simple. It's peace and the
national interest. It's that's it. And
war is never in the national interest as
far as the Philippines is concerned.
And so we just are hoping that this ends
soon.
And that
they whatever recalibration will will be
will be done as quickly as possible so
we can get back to work. And that's
that's really the that's really where
the Philippines is. We're
we're watching, waiting, hoping and
praying
that this ends soon. The war has sent
the Philippine peso reeling 60
to the dollar.
It's testing new lows after new lows. Do
you think the BSP needs to tighten
policy to hike rates to support the
currency? As a matter of policy, we
defend we defend the peso to a certain
extent.
But we just I think
with the dollar moving the way it is,
and it's it's moving. Whereas before the
dollar was seen as a safe harbor
currency.
When you look deeper into it, the
dollar's movement increase in in value
has been really because they're the
largest oil um
producer.
And that's that's why that is. And
considering that, then we have to
I think it would be even
to be futile to try to spend all of this
all of our foreign reserves on defending
on defending the peso. The impact of all
of this
of the war of the war in the Middle East
is really to the middle income
and the lower middle income countries.
And we are middle income country. And so
that's where that's why
we have to look at that. The The other
side of that for the Philippines
is the remittances.
The remittances are paid in dollars. And
so there will be an increase, but that
doesn't make up for for for the for the
for the drop in the
the dollar to peso. One of the key
challenges is the economy.
Uh
the Philippines used to be one of the
fastest growing in the region. Now a
laggard, fourth-quarter GDP was a mere
3% which was the slowest pace in 14
years outside the pandemic. Can you get
GDP back above 6%?
>> Yes, we believe we can. I mean we we
were forecasting for the year of 26. Um
we were going we were going to manage
6-7%
uh 6 6-7%
and with that that that figure
um was was something that we came up
with uh internally. But as well the
other financing institutions and the
banks
seem to have had the same same opinion.
Because the improvement in our uh
our our grade on S&P
uh in uh
as as was it was going to improve.
However,
with but the war in the Middle East uh
those have to be redrawn. Everything has
to be redrawn.
And that was the Philippine President
Ferdinand Marcos Jr. speaking
exclusively with Has there in Manila.
Now to some of the other highlights that
we're tracking surrounding the fallout
[music] from the Iran war. Now Iran has
stopped natural gas exports to Turkey
following last week's Israeli strike on
the giant South Pars [music] gas field.
But sources also say Ankara is still
importing gas from its main suppliers
Russia and Azerbaijan and can continue
using gas [music] held in storage. The
energy minister told state broadcaster
TRT that Turkey is not facing any gas
supply issues and [music] storage
facilities are 71% full.
And Cathay Pacific is canceling
passenger flights from Hong Kong to
Dubai and Riyadh through the end of May.
In a statement, [music] the airline
blames the volatile situation in the
Middle East. Cathay says it's adding
extra flights for Paris [music] and
Zurich and extra seats to London.
Yep. We'll have more from the on the
aviation aviation [music] sector coming
up speaking with executives as you can
see on your screens at those times from
the aviation
festival Asia 2026. [music] Lots more
ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Power down. Power down. There we go.
Prices are lower back below 100 bucks
[music] on Brent. Uh you go through of
course the the whole gamut of
um market-ly traded petroleum contracts
and proxies. Similar picture we're
seeing there.
Uh gold is obviously behaving the
not as a haven asset but the opposite.
And it is gaining of course given this
risk rally we're seeing across the
region uh today. Right, US futures are
coming up on your screens. Could be
indicative of that rally continuing
going into the thick of the European and
eventually US open. Uh it's worth
pointing out that we are at about
the midway point uh the midpoint rather
of the range today. So we haven't given
up quite a bit of upside, but we're
still up half of 1% there. Yeah, so
certainly it seems like you know US
futures are pointing positively. Usually
we have seen similar a different sort of
picture here where you know
Asian markets tend to be uh you know see
a relief rally and by the time the US
and Europe wake up, things turn a little
bit more sour. But we haven't seen that.
It seems like there is continuation of
this good news story that possibly we
are getting closer to some sort of a
plan or ceasefire or even some sort of
peace. So there you go. Close to 2%
gains there for MSCI. And it's really
been led by the likes of North Asia. So
the Kospi, Japan. Uh but Indonesia
coming back there after that long
holiday and certainly they are catching
up here this morning as well. Yes. Yes.
Uh been shut for I would say roughly
about a week or so. So I think if they
if the market did of course reopen
yesterday, there would have been a
different story, but we're splitting the
difference there
uh and as far as that goes. Okay, just
just very very quickly too just to tell
you about any economic releases out
today. It's really a quiet day as far as
that is concerned. Most of the
major releases have been released.
Aussie inflation was out as well. Uh
just to also mention it's still we're
going to think of earning season.
Uh so Pop Mart is scheduled to come out
with earnings and just a look at some of
the big companies too out over the next
few hours. Yeah, you know can they you
know use new name, new patents, [music]
new IPs, right? Beyond the LoL Booboos
which seems to be over that mania now.
Uh talk more about Cry Baby and the like
there. But yeah, plenty more in terms of
earnings [music] and uh Kuaishou,
Kingsoft all reporting later today too.
This is Bloomberg.